Disclaimer: this was a group project for ENEL200, however all of the electronics design and testing was my work.
I still think its worth including however, as it was required to be completed in a very short timeframe, from concept to gerbers in around 10 days. Also constrained was component choice, as a certain fraction of the budget was required to be UC store parts. 

The basic concept is that one of the group members was required to test a large number of trailer lights daily, which required moving and plugging the trailer into an actual car. The solution this project provided was a portable, battery powered, light tester, which supplied the lights 12 volts through a trailer light connector. In theory allowing far faster testing.
The main issue was power. There are many cases where a light will partially illuminate below rated power and fail at rated power, so it was safety critical to operate the lights at rated power. This would give ultimate visual confirmation of safety. However, most trailers still use incandescent bulbs, which require around 25W, or 12V ~2A, and are often stringed in parallel up to 4, giving a total power requirement of 100W. Fortunately, this is well within the rated power of many batteries, we chose Makita-style power tool batteries, which can supply upwards of 300W (at minimum). Unfortunately, these packs operate at the raw battery voltage, which fluctuates between ~28V and ~15V. Doubling the voltage supplied to an incandescent light would require some constant current solution. This left the path of least resistance, which was regulating 12V from the battery voltage.

100W is not a trivial amount for buck converters. There are very few integrated converters, which left buck controllers with an external FET. Due to component restrictions it was required to use mainly through-hole resistors, and whatever PFETs were available. The end result worked, however due to the increased conduction losses of the PFET it was thermally constrained to around 25 watts. I tested it with the much lower RDS on IRF4905 and continuous power increased to ~50W, which was the limit of the test load I had available. If I had time to revise the board, I would have replaced the TO-220 switching FET with a DFN type FET, which generally have much lower gate charge and RDS on. This would have solved the power issues.  
